No application is complete unless we have some kind of form that allows the user to enter data.
So in this lesson, we'll go through the process of creating a form.
Step one is to bind the form to an object.
So as always, you've got your HTML template form that HTML and you're going to need a handler method
that returns the form view when a user makes a get request.
But before we do that, we need to add some data to the model.
Namely, we're going to add an empty grade object to the model.
And what we're going to do is bind this entire object to our form using the leaf attribute object.
And once we perform this bind, then we can bind each form input to a field in the model object.
So now every single input can use a selection expression and bind to a field in the model object.
The name input will bind to the name field.
The score input will bind to the score field and the subject input will bind to the subject field.
And after we've done all that, we can return the form view.
As we return the form view.
Each input is going to be attached to a field.
This is going to be very important as we submit our form.
When a user makes a get request on an empty path, what we want to do is map that request to a handler
method called grade form.
Every handler method can access the model, and when a request is made on this path, what we're going
to do is return defined leaf template form.
Now, before we return the form for you, what we need to do is bind this entire form to a model object.
So back here we're going to say model dot add attribute.
You're going to add a great attribute that maps to an empty grade object.
All right.
And back inside a form that XHTML.
I can bind this entire form to an object by using the leaf attribute object.
And we're going to bind it to the model object grade.
The variable expression retrieves the grade object that's in our model.
And this time leaf attribute is going to bind the object that results from this expression to this entire
form.
The life attribute field binds a form element to an object.
This is going to be very important as we submit our form.
Because the entire form is bound to this object, then each input can use a selection expression.
Finally, field is equal to a selection expression.
This one is going to bind to the name field.
This one will bind to the score field.
And this one is going to bind to the subject field.
Okay.
Now I'm actually going to run this in debug mode.
I'll have to go over here, press run and debug, and I will add some breakpoints to our getters.
Not the setter.
The getters.
Now I'm going to make a request to local host 1880.
Here the getter gets to name executes.
Your getters are being used to pre populate each input with a field from the model object.
So here we're using the getter get name to return the name value.
Then we're using the get or get score.
Then we're using the getter get subject and because every single field in this great object is null,
it follows that every single input is going to start off as empty.
Well, right now, if I were to do the same thing.
And pass in a populated grade object.
So we'll say new grade.
Well, we'll just pass in the following grade.
Okay.
We'll go back to local host 8080.
Oh, I stop the runtime.
I'm just going to rerun this using Maven clean spring boot run.
I got my point across.
No more need for breakpoints.
And now each form input is pre-populated with field values.
So because the entire form is bound to an object and each input is bound to a field in the object,
then it follows that each input is going to be pre-populated with a value.
Every single input is attached to a field.
And this is going to be very important when we submit our form.